## Find something new in God's Word

Select a set of related verses for further study

 - Study a topic by browsing for verses that address similar idea or themes.
   Since the Bible is consistent with itself (but sometimes presents apparant
   paradoxes), a topical Bible study can help expose the nuance and different
   facets of a topic.
 - Study a topic by identifying one or more key words in Greek or Hebrew, and
   browse for applicable verses that use that word. Those verses act as an
   example of the meaning of that Greek or Hebrew word.

At some point you may want to take your list of verses to your paper Bible or
Bible reader app to study them in context. The Reading List acts as a list of
related and maybe interesting verses that you might want to dig into deeper when
you have time for more in depth study. In the mean time, enjoy scrolling through
God's Word!

### Some words of caution

#### About context

If you treat each verse as a standalone quote, you are likely to miss critical
context that comes from the rest of the book that the quote is taken from. The
Scroll Bible app does a poor job of exposing that context to you; to understand
the text correctly you will need to study the quotes in their context. If you're
not sure how to do that, a good place to start is to pull up the verse in your
paper Bible or Bible reader app and read the paragraphs before and after the
verse in question. It's also helpful to read the introduction to the book that
the verse is from to get an idea of who is the audience and what is the purpose.
You are likely to find helpful resources by contacting your home church or a
church near you that teaches the Bible.

#### About Greek and Hebrew dictionaries

If you attempt to translate a text from another culture and time in history by
looking up each word in the dictionary and substituting the translation, you
will produce a confusing and incorrect translation. In Scroll Bible, the
Strong's dictionary entry is not presented as an authoritative explanation of
every sense of the word wherever it appears in scripture; it should give you a
rough idea of the sense of the word and no more. The essential information is
the other verses that use the same word -- by looking at how it is used
throughout scripture, you can get a rough idea of what is meant by the word even
without knowing exactly how to translate it. When in doubt, trust the scholars
who have painstakingly translated the original texts into our language. Consider
comparing different translations to see if there is disagreement between
translators for how to render certain words.

If you'd like to explore this more, consider studying the different Greek words
for *love* or *know* and work backwards from the verses that use those words to
understand the sense.
